You said you tried to be with your people as much as possible.
Right.
To me, that was kind of the fun part.
I had lots of graduate students about.
I just tried to see people as much as I could and figured my paperwork and lots of that I just had to do at night.
at other times.
And you were always having either university accreditation or college accreditation or departmental accreditation or graduate program accreditation.
There was something always having to be prepared.
And normally you got home about what time?
Oh, I normally tried to get home by, now early on when I was having to prepare my lessons and all that, I couldn't get home until very late, you know.
And, but later on in life, I tried to get home by 6 o'clock or so.
And what, during all those years, what did you do for relaxation?
Oh, frankly, I, I, I, um,
I didn't do very much.
I always enjoyed quail hunting when I could, but I spent the time with my kids primarily.
I coached Little League.
teenage baseball and all that kind of stuff and had horses for my children and took them to horse shows and so it was a long day.
And you're active in what church?
A&M Church of Christ.
I was a deacon there and chaired that building committee that built a new facility in and out by Consolidated High School.
Did all those little things on the side.
Let's go back to Mr. Rudder.
Did you see much, as a department head, did you see much of Mr. Rudder?
Did he come over to the vet school very often?
No, I never saw Mr. Rudder in the veterinary school, but as I say, we had academic council, and I guess we met probably once a month unless we had special meetings.
And he was always there.
And if we had receptions or new student nights or what have you, Mr. Rudder knew every one of the faculty on campus.
And so... What did Mr. Rudder do best and least best?
Mr. Rudder, as I mentioned before, at least best, I guess, was delegation.
And best was knowing the faculty and the faculty respecting him, the changes that he made in the university structure from the standpoint of coeducation and the military aspects of it.
name changes and all those kind of things.
And then his relationship with the legislative people and, like I say, he was a good friend of Abner McCall and friends and network he had developed through the state and even at the national level.
He just did a little, at any level, he was very effective.
I say just when, I was pretty involved with when he got, had his heart attack.
Describe that.
Well, it, again, it goes back to my relationship to Baylor probably meant more to my career than, than anything.
The contacts I made in the medical center, anytime anybody at A&M needs a referral or what have you, I could just call and get admission in the medical center at any of the hospitals and still can.
But there was a man in the medical center, Dr. John Knox, who was head of the dermatology department and really helped me and took care of me while I was down at Baylor.
Immediately when Mr. Rudder had the attack, John took over and got him admitted.
How did you and others learn about the attack?
Oh, I guess John called me.
Was Mr. Rudder at home?
I think so, best I remember.
And, but John, John just took over that whole, that whole bit.
John Knox was a, as you know, was a very A&M oriented Aggie, played basketball here, and one of the
outstanding former students, and it wasn't anything that he wouldn't do for Texas A&M University, and so John was very, very important in all of that event, and I'd get daily reports from him on his status,
Were you surprised when Mr. Rudder had his heart attack?
Were you aware of his...
No, and John wasn't either that he had been having, had any cardiac problems.
He was a bit overweight and overworked.
So, I mean, those things led their way.
Part I know Mr. Rudder didn't smoke or anything.
just a bit overweight, and I don't know what his family heritage was as far as hard time.
Then, when Dr. Williams came, did you know, had you had any acquaintance with him before he was appointed as president?
No, but he came, and the reason that, I don't know, he ain't,
Jack Kenny was a strange, it was not strange to be different.
He always called me Brother McCready, and I don't know why.
But he came out of Tennessee and had headed up, I believe it was Tennessee, and headed up the medical program in Tennessee.
He was the chief academic officer of all the, including, and particularly medicine also.
Right.
And so that, when he came here, he always seemed to have this interest in medicine with some knowledge and background.
And so, again, it always, anything to do with medicine at that time, since we didn't have a medical school, and particularly the Texas Medical Center was kind of my
task.
For example
A long later in life, after we had the Institute of Comparative Medicine and set that up, and then I was called on by the chancellor, Perry Atkinson, to set up an institute of biomedical sciences and technology in the Texas Medical Center.
And Dr. Winerti had since become president of the Texas Medical Center.
So I was asked to design a building and a program for the IBT using the old Shamrock Hilton site, tearing it down and building a new 11-story building.
So I was asked to, I was asked by the chancellor to put together a program and design a building.
for that site, which I did.
And I still have all the plans, I still have all the program materials, the design of the projects, the whole thing.
The Chancellor at that time, I had several opportunities to move elsewhere.
who've become dean, and the chancellor asked me if I would to stay at Texas A&M to help him put in this institute of comparative, oh, this Bowles Institute, IBT.
Which A&M leader was that?
That was Perry.
Perry.
And Perry was, this is, I don't mean to be derogatory about any of this, but
He called me, had me meet him in his office one morning at six o'clock.
He said, J.D., he said, if I'm going to become chancellor of the A&M system, I have been charged by
David Eller, Chairman of the Board of Regents, that I must put together this relationship with the Baylor College or the Texas Medical Center.
He said,
I don't know how to begin, and he said that my assistant associate chancellor, O.D.
Butler, said that you are the one that has the contact in the medical center.
He said, well, you do it.
I said, well, at that time I just had an offer from, to become dean at Oklahoma State.
And he had been called about all the deanships I would be contacted.
They would always call the administrative officers, officers here to see, I guess, for reference and other things.
And he said, I know you got the job offer at that time at Oklahoma State.
And he said, if you'll stay here and help me put this together, I'm going to make you dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine, and I'm going to have you run this institute.
And you can interview Perry and verify these facts if you so desire.
And so I said, well, I really liked the medical center.
I would really enjoy having the college and that institute to go with it.
And at the same time, I had
So I developed the institute.
I got Dr. Bill Butler, president of Baylor, and Dr. LaMater, president of MD Anderson, involved in the process.
I was offered fifty million dollars by Dr. LaMater to set up a separate entity called Institute for Comparative Oncology.
And that would have been, Dr. LaMater had said that, you know, these rats and mice we're using for cancer research have proved nothing in 100 years.
He said we need a spontaneous heterogenic source of cancer for experimentation.
and in animals large enough that we can do therapy.
So 50 million dollars was mine to set that up.
So we had the Institute of All Sciences and Technology Institute for Comparative Oncology, the medical school, all of those great things going.
assignment verbally assigned to me to take over in about 1989 or something like that.
And overnight, all of that was changed.
decided that they wanted to hire a member of the National Academy of Sciences to head up the College of Agriculture.
And when they hired that gentleman, one of the stipulations in his contract was that he would have his own animal doctors.
and would hire the dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine.
And so that destroyed the whole system.
As far as you know, you say they, was that a board, was that a Regental decision?
That decision was built, again, a lot around Perry.
and Perry had been appointed to the National Academy of Sciences, and they began to think that if you're gonna hire anybody in any job here from then on, there's gonna be a National Academy member.
But I was meaning, did the people that decided that, was it Perry or was it people above Perry?
Well, I think it was a combination of David Eller and Perry.
Because David was working with me directly on setting up another institute out here, which I did on
exotic animals and wildlife.
He had an interest in that because of some of his contacts in Africa.
So I was working with David on that, and with Perry on this other, and with La Mater and Butler on another, and things were really going great guns, you know.
Now were you, were you still department head at that point?
Yeah.
Okay.
I was told I was going to be promoted and to be responsible for the Institute of Bioscience and Technology, the College of Veterinary Medicine, the Institute for Comparative Oncology, and the Wildlife and Exotic Animal Program.
And that changed overnight.
And I was essentially banished to Siberia, actually.
How did you learn of those changes?
Well, it was strange.
They hired this gentleman.
And he came as head of the College of Agriculture and Experiment Station.
They kicked Neville Clark aside when they brought him here, Dr. Arntzen.
And Dr. Arntzen appeared with the idea of me helping him.
learn about the College of Veterinary Medicine.
He always called them his animal people.
He didn't call them veterinarians.
He had met this dean they brought in, the dean of veterinary medicine.
He had met him while he was at the University of Illinois working there, and so I had been selected as dean, and when they brought in about our faculty here,
Then they brought this other gentleman in just overnight, and he appeared, and the faculty signed a petition, 87 percent of the faculty, to appoint me as dean.
And so when the other gentleman came, he stayed here six, seven years old, but he never, he was never able to gain the confidence of the faculty.
Let's back up to another dean search.
Dr. Price served to the normal retirement age and retired.
And looking back on his years of service, how would you describe, how would you summarize, describe Al Price's record here?
Well, as I mentioned, Al had, he was still primarily an educator.
He wasn't really into the research and graduate efforts, but he had this vision of doubling the enrollment.
and the trimester program, which he got from Bill Armstead at Michigan State.
But he, that all came together at the time of capitation, and so we got new buildings, we got new curriculum, more students.
All of those things were good, but we were still very embryonic as far as being a total college.
All right, then he retired and there was a search and led to the appointment of George Shelton.
Describe that search as you recall.
Well, before the search occurred,
Dr. John Calhoun.
We weren't into big searches back in those times.
I would laugh every now and then.
I hired my whole faculty without any search.
I mean, I'd bring them in and let them meet and so forth, but I'd been recruiting these people for years through this other system.
But we didn't really do much searching.
And Dr. Calhoun called me one day to come visit him, and he offered me the deanship.
And I was, that would have been in, I was about 35, 40 years old or something like that.
And I, you know, and I told him I appreciated it very much.
But I had a family and, you know, that I just felt like I wasn't ready.
I said, when I get to be dean, I want to be able to immerse myself essentially 24 hours a day and build a program.
And it kind of took him aback a little bit.
And I don't know whether you talked to them at that time or not.
But... So anyhow, then they went into a search mode.
I was the chairman of that search committee.
I was the one that conducted the search.
So describe how you and your colleagues... Well, we...
We were not very familiar with searches.
Al Price had been, all the other deans had just been appointed by the administration.
And just like I was appointed department head, there was never a search or anything done.
And I guess I would have been appointed dean without a search if,
if I would have accepted it.
But we went through a process with, when you look at, for deans of colleges, you don't have many people, you don't have many people to select from.
And so I think that
George Shelton was, he was an A&M graduate.
He was a veterinarian.
He had his Ph.D.
He, let's say, that's the first team we ever had to have a Ph.D.
And
And he was congenial and didn't appear that he would rock the boat in any way, and said it appeared to be rather low-key.
And that's the way it turned out to be, a very much of a gentleman, a person that came in.
turned all the funds over and all the decisions over to the department heads.
And the only time you needed to go see Dr. Shelton was if you needed some resources or some help.
He never interfered in any way with whatever you were doing.
As far as you would now look back, did he lead the college effectively?
Well, you know, and George will tell you the same thing.
He selected good department heads.
and let them do their thing, and only got involved if you needed some type of assistance, and he was always available.
If I needed to go and visit someone about a grant or about some type of activity, he immediately would go with you and visit with them and support you.
I never had a time when
The only time that George and I ever had any conflict in objectives was when he decided to go line item.
Go what?
Line item budget.
And I, having been in a department that had such a big graduate program and a big biomedical sciences program, didn't think that we would get a fair shake in line item.
And what I wanted to do, I wanted to go in with a hybrid proposal to the legislature, line item for the professional program, just like the medical school, but stay on formula for graduate program and biomedical sciences program.
Well, anyhow, we went line out.
And as time went by, we found out we got it changed two years ago that we weren't getting credit for Biomedical Sciences, which is a huge program, or for our graduate program.
And so when Dr. Adams became dean, the first thing he did was
consulted and I tried to explain to him formally how you got so much per head and you don't get that on Lion Atom and so now we've gone back to the legislature and we have two funding sources, one for Lion Atom for the professional program and one formula for all the other programs.
How, was there any difference in the pattern of department heads meetings with Dean Shelton than there was with Dean Price?
Oh.
I guess Al came with a little bit more of a fixed agenda than George.
George, he's just such a principled person.
He wasn't anything but to help.
As they've often said, you know, he was too nice to be a dean.
But the college made great strides because he left the Department.
He had to run with it.
What about his life?
Describe Joy.
Oh, Joy is just a real trooper.
She, of course, I had a kind of an unusual relationship with them in a way.
George hadn't been here too very long and he had a
an acoustical tumor, a brain tumor, and he wanted to know what to do and this and that, and so I got him and sent him to a doctor that I had
done research with at Baylor, and Dr. Bobby Alford, who was an ENT man and surgeon, and those acoustical tumors normally take 24 hours of surgery and working in teams to dissect them out and so forth.
And so I got him an appointment with Dr. Alford, and Dr. Alford's team did that surgery.
And as I say, I had a good rapport with all of these people.
Dr. Alford and I were very close.
He, an M.D., and I working on graduate, on a research program.
In fact, I had a dog that had a, had a past pointing condition.
It had an overly active middle ear.
activity and infection and, and would circle and pass point or go past the desired point and we took it in the Methodist Hospital and operated on it to the Bluebird Clinic about years ago and so.
Anyhow, we just had, we had a good relationship and a good family relationship and I had a good, with George we had some common friends and
And I was able to help make contact with some prominent people in the state.
And so our relationship was just always great, and we set up
He and Ed Eddett and I set up this companion animal center, geriatric center, and that's another story.
All right, now at the state level, I understood at the time that the search began for Dr. Shelton,
that there was a little bit of complaining across the state about the College of Veterinary Medicine losing touch with the real state and all, that there needed to be stronger rapport with the public out there.
Was that?
Well, you mean after George was appointed or before he was appointed?
Before he was appointed.
Well, yeah, I guess in some ways Al had a good rapport with the graduates.
Yes.
But I don't know that he ever built very much a relationship with the legislative people.
And that's a difficult, at the time, if you're not on line item, depending who the president is, they don't let the deans get out and try to get state support or anything.
So, you know, it all depends.
But George, we, when George came, one of the other things that Ned
was we set up kind of a development, college development program where we tried to influence, bring friends of veterinary medicine in from around the state and develop that.
And George was good at that.
He had done that.
We made lots of friends through that.
Now at the higher level,
he worked, the college worked well with Calhoun and Williams.
Is that right?
It seemed to me that they did.
Then when Dr. Williams has his heart attack, then when he recovers,
the board recreates the system and moves him up to be chancellor.
And Miller.
How did things change, or did they change then?
Well, again, I don't want to be derogatory toward anybody, but I guess did Jarvis come in after that?
And OD, animal science people, they always thought that the college belonged to them.
And they were very jealous of the college.
And really didn't do a lot to try to help the college.
And I had become real involved in the Texas Aircraft Experiment Station.
after Neville became director, Neville Clark.
And so I was kind of pulled into that thing, that arena of the agriculture and the experiment station and lots of those things.
through an undertow with Neville, who was a veterinary Ph.D.
physiologist.
He trained at Washington State, so we were very good friends.
He was in my department on paper.
As I look back on it, it probably wasn't fair, but George never complained.
I probably handled nearly all of the research dollars and the grants and contracts and everything up through the experiment station and the university.